welcome to go yet web browsers
connectivity special interest groups and
friends this is still weekly maybe we
will change that
call for the fourth of oh gosh
its eighth and it's April already please
had any agenda items you want to discuss
while you do that I will share my screen
I believe my item is under beginning of
the list so let's get it out of the way
quickly so there's a quick update about
IP first companion a new stable version
shipped it has it's like not very
eventful right now but it will be when
go idea phase 0.5 ships so right now it
looks mostly the same there is just like
a small small improvement if you are on
ipfs resource and you want to copy it
there's a better level label here that's
about it however if you got your IP FS
0.5 it not only works because it
supports post on the HTTP API it also
has a full support for subdomain
gateways all gateways all the public
gateways the canonical one on the web
link but also any other gateway that
follows the subdomain convention will be
redirected to a subdomain gateway at a
local host and all the IDS all will be
converted to say DV 1 all the just that
I talked multiple times but that's does
the version of companion which is
already accepted on both Firefox add-on
store and what's more important on the
in Webster and that's probably the most
interesting part of this announcement
because like you can't play with this
sub domain stuff if you try the latest
RC one I believe it shipped yesterday
for Goa TFS 0.5 it will roll out with
ipfs desktop as soon that is shipped but
for now you just need to manually
install it however what's interesting
about this release is it got accepted
into Chrome Web Store under three days
so I've been like tracking how long it
takes for um the moment I publish our
browser extension to the moment it's
available and recently there was a
change so you can see both battles were
accepted under three days and our stable
version was accepted under like within
two days which means probably a either
our extension is already marked as
trusted or the new fields for
description of / permission which we had
to fill up recently and it was like a
delay caused another delay few weeks
back maybe that paid off and now we are
on this fast line we'll see I'll keep
this issue open and we'll track this
over the time but why it's important
it's important in case there's a
security issue of like overlap let's
like knock on the wood but like breaking
changes happen and we want to quickly
roll out the fix to our users if it
takes a weeks it's not a good experience
if it takes one two days let's be better
so that's the update on companion any
questions around companion before I move
to the next one
I think thanks for pushing that out so
fast and I worked over the weekend I I
think it's really interesting feedback
like that this is a great argument for
Mozilla's automated
revue followed by later manual review is
the security fire drill and that's
something where I feel like chrome
chrome hasn't been really responsive to
complaints about long turnaround times
there that is not really a direct effect
er for communication there we don't do a
lot of feedback from them this is again
we've talked before about may be
publicly communicating the frustrations
that we've had some of the challenges
might I I don't know if we're quite
there yet I'm going kind of aggro mode
publicly on them about it it would be
interesting to see if other folks have
done that and kind of what the response
was we also have some back-channel
communication we can do there as well
but it's it's a real concern it's not
turn around from a security person
there's a Google Groups list for four
browsers extension developers and it's
pretty intense let me put it that way
and also like Google like themselves
they communicated recently like two
weeks ago
around the copied 19 situation they are
actively note sent a notice that there
may be a week weeks long delay in
publishing new extensions so I think we
are pretty lucky given the fact that we
already have as established presence and
we probably are in there like fast line
but if you are a new developer it might
takes like months before your extension
is available on the Chrome Web Store
which is pretty bad yeah yep smoothly
transitioning I mentioned go ipfs 0.5 is
in the works
release candidate one ship to instantly
and I won't go into all like all the
changes however I want to mention it
here because it impacts our GUI
applications and it impacts people who
use it for web apps for hosting their
websites and stuff like that so there's
an issue about wheels preparation where
you can find
and resources for where to download our
Swan what what are expected breaking
changes or what are new features however
something that is important for people
using it on the web is check the change
on the HTTP API like it always was was
an RPC type API over HTTP
people often been confused why it's not
following HTTP convention stuff like
that and I believe we were it was our
fault that we accept that stuff like get
post work the same it's like right now
the change that we shipped in this
release makes it much more strict to be
an RPC it's requires post and that's a
breaking change because a lot of people
just use cat because that's the default
in many HTTP libraries and the HTTP
libraries for various languages so what
I did I went over everywhere every repo
which we link from our like main project
entry points there is a list of HTTP
live client libraries for different
languages and I went over them I also
like fixed links to some which change
URLs changed maintainer and gave a quick
heads up to each maintainer that to
double check if they are already using
post if not to make that change some
already within a few hours address that
but I hope that will at least if it
breaks if that change break someone's
stuck they will at least be able to
quickly find it even if the maintainer
of the library did not fix it they will
find the issue and I wanted to mention
it here in case someone is watching this
and when they require their app stopped
responding or start starts responding
with four or five one
or method not supported so that's one
thing post only HTTP API will lanten go
up if s 0.5 try this candidate 1 if it
works and another thing is in on the
specific on the djursland
we have j s HTTP api library which
everyone is using from from the j s so
if you don't want to embed J's ipfs on
the page and you are running go ipfs on
the backend you just use this library we
have so the good good news is like the
problematic part is that we infer made
this huge refactor to a sink iterables
few weeks back and not every web app
managed to fully meet great to this new
programmatic API in the JavaScript land
this is like specific on the joyous lon
so I make I just wanted to make sure
there's a patch release available for
people who are still on the older
version before we made that breaking
change of programmatic interface so if
you are in that camp that you have an
app which will take some time to
refactor to use those new J's api's you
don't need to worry just use this
version it will work fine that's the
version that will be used by web UI so
it would be safe bet that it should work
for you and then move to the new API at
your own convenience
those are my like two quick
announcements around core TFS release an
IP first companion release any questions
around go ipfs 0.5 well we talked about
maybe publishing a blog post
specifically for some of these developer
changes to be able to make sure that the
things that developer is the actions
that that developers have to take are
not lost in the
in the parade of announcements and new
features and things like that how does
this change other other extensions and
things like that like but many masks
some of the browser integrations that
we've done is there anything that we
need to cut maybe go through a list of
all the collabs even and think about who
needs to actually take proactive make
radical changes yeah so like the good
thing is that our release process of the
gorg FS itself it has let me quickly
scroll Scroll scroll there is like a
really checklist and on that checklist
we've got internal testing I believe we
could check the desktop as well because
I met yesterday I made sure it works so
that's a stage 1 internal testing and
then there's community dev testing and
community protesting and we have an
early testers program where I believe
most of our collapse are already like
members of this
so they got early notice yeah so here's
the list you can like sign up you're up
here to be like proactively in the loop
and it's a proper checklist so we cannot
move forward if like community like
people from the program at least do not
acknowledge they tested and if it's
something breaks they identified the fix
or so it's like a hard block around a
nice yeah
all right this is sort of like another
item is also mine but it's a meta about
this call so you could see I had a
question mark oh wow
why is it like Heidi yeah so I got this
question mark here my proposal is to
make it be weekly mostly to give us more
breathing room I was also like
considering making it shorter but I feel
there are interesting topics but we
probably could do this every two weeks
and probably increase the maybe like not
quality but like pick more prominent
changes like less often but maybe talk a
bit longer about them how do you feel
about making this call be weekly
starting like now so this would be the
next one would be in two weeks how do we
feel about this would be better to do an
hour every other week or a half an hour
every week yeah so I personally I don't
feel any difference in the way my day is
structured in the call if the call is
half an hour or an hour it's always for
me the similar spot on the week that I
need to be like ready or think about
after doing the call is what is painful
to you okay got it
cool I don't even like me as a person
who usually makes the call and and it
it's mostly with every call if I have a
call which is 20 minutes on one hour in
my mind it's the same fair enough
enough so I have no opinions either way
just thought I'd bring that up as a
possible alternative and also are we
supposed to not be having meetings on
Wednesday is now did yeah
I on the previous topic I'm the same as
Idol like I feel like it occupies the
same cognitive overhead for me whether
it's 30 minutes or an hour it's about
like for me it's a saving for moves
every two weeks but we can always try it
out see how it goes to you guys come
back to test it for a month or record if
it feels like it's too long you don't
remember anything
then go for the Wednesday's there is no
official rollout of that program yet for
meaning free Wednesday's however I think
it's very likely that it will be adopted
and announced free soon so there's no
change required yet especially as now
we're every other Wednesday but if that
does happen then we would definitely
need to move this moving
if
we'd already been trying to avoid Friday
meetings for folks who are you know in
like amia places would meeting free
Thursdays maybe make more sense because
then people are like guaranteed to
blocks of time or does that feel way too
much like I'm pretty much like meeting
free days that end then why is what I'm
trying to do generally but I I'm with
you on the Friday yeah I think maybe
Wednesday was people's choice because
yeah I was just like I heard this I
don't I don't want a mom with someone
earlier that I'm like eating free
Wednesday's I know not of this thing
okay I think there were some some
internal messages and some of the team's
okay it's not really full it's not a
real thing yet we don't need you it's
real okay okay yeah okay so let's let's
try making this like the next one in two
weeks if turns out that takes two hours
will reconsider all right next one
clicks did you yes same developer who
did some of the early it's where we're
at Lionel halftime to the ipfs on the D
web around the same period of time and
started seeing and recently just shipped
it in the clicks browser quick browser
is not just a browser but it's like a
suite of products based in Germany they
are a privacy oriented organization that
is they received some funding from
Mozilla in the past does some
interesting things like different
integrations with Firefox their browser
is a fork of Firefox and so it kind of
stands out and they're just really are a
lot of those and they're interested in
they saw what we did with operate are
interested in talking about the FS
integration I'm interested in talking to
them for a couple different reasons is
interesting I'd like to learn more about
what their longer-term strategy and
plans are as well as they just launched
a search engine and having more people
looking at web 3 search is better a lot
of those people so far as organizations
seem to be
pretty firmly rooted in the crypto
sphere and community so I'm really
interested in it to see if we're
interested in poking at that from a
privacy and more browser and media
oriented background since they're owned
by large German media publishing company
so the interesting things to poke at all
of this creep now there's any updates
talk I think the next couple of things
are me as well the Djinn introduced me
to somebody who don't work for and yet
back from the day and as a web RTC
specialist maybe also thinking yeah
interesting to see ideas and
opportunities connection chances across
but especially as we're looking at going
more into mobile lowering the various
country there I'm interested in would be
be configurations with that are under
constrained too much accounts swarm like
behavior as opposed to persist appears
as we get into things like your store
and things like that these opportunities
so looking further down the road if you
have any ideas just receiving super to
give other ideas of places where we
could really poke at and lean on web RTC
looking at what web system maybe looking
at people taking to TC other things like
Webre TC over ht3
and things like that slowly start to
emerge being prepared for how to take
advantage of these better connection
opportunities and how they're tuned for
mobile and usage more but if you have
ideas really be interested in how we can
kind of pre-flight some this that by
writing it off those membranes even if
it's just research like what point do we
still have the same type of crash at six
connections you know things like that
into proposals in which ones even if
it's just somebody doing a survey of
connections
finding out where the ceilings are
and then showing up with the broader web
developer community did something would
be interesting facility ecosystem yeah I
think there's plenty stuff we can look
at it's like we've already have some
things earmarked for later this year in
terms of like distributed signaling and
then at some point we'd like to do like
distributed ice like if we can combine
that with Auto net but I think like
looking at like make you talked about
even just general of RTC configuration
for us like what can we do like what
should people be doing with their
connection managers to like restrict web
RCT web RTC connections and like what
what can we build in that area so I
think even just syncing up with him
who's been doing more party see forever
in terms of like hey what this is what
we're kind of thinking like what about
that seems like a bad terrible idea
right now in the where it easy space and
like what reasonably could we do and
then like let's look at like proof of
concept of that working and then
potentially create a working draft spec
from from there for those things and
then any like Lippe to be roll up
configuration from there like this so we
actually have voiced back into the
standardization process as well so
somebody's involved in the development
of the stack be able to get our you know
we've made some comments on WebRTC and
the last year thanks for your help their
team drop drop some thoughts in there
but having that ongoing in our favor
presence
just one question anyone knows the
status status of quick WebRTC I think
should be a cool thing also to ever
proof of concept I think it's the origin
trial I mean last time I checked it was
originally in chromium yeah I think
that's still the case like you can opt
into it like in reality like a quick
quick spec isn't even final yet so like
they're not really gonna move forward on
that but the big thing the biggest thing
that we're going to get out of that is
really like not having to implement so
many different things because we don't
have to run a turn server and a
signaling server and a server and all
three of those are using like different
text which is annoying so being able to
have everything just run quick under the
hood will be nice um I think some play a
lot of things but from a standardization
you know like one of the things that
happen as these standards are being
developed is people are looking for use
cases and people tell me their success
or failure stories so something that
might be worth doing from our standpoint
is I mean having something like Phillip
actually build a proof of concept and
run some benchmarks and say look for our
use cases we can get these improvements
in connection speed bandwidth from 3.0
and if there's anything we can benchmark
keeping around power consumption on
mobile dies like any of those types of
stories are what really can can move
something they either get a little hunk
from a standardization perspective I
really push on implementations for a
specific vendors as well so really the
spectrum of different projects there I
think is pretty broad and I'd be
interested in funding this morning and
any one of these little pieces
especially the distributed ice is
something that like there's really a lot
of goodwill in the community I think
from innovation in that space it's one
of the biggest one of the biggest
complaints that you see
you
this next bit is me as well I say we
upper launched last week
before that I connected with the infor
team to make sure that we were logging
what was coming in off - I've got links
we have a view into that the Cabana is
behind the IPL account so that's public
right now but if anybody has familiarity
with any of these members it's kind of
interesting like we saw two spike
obviously when but then I think there
might be a metrics collection issue
because shortly after a three four-day
spike around the lunch the numbers are
actually lower than they were tired in
the watch like drastically lower so I
need to point in France you went
shopping there but I said I'd focus
across the pier in case you had anything
there working with this stuff before but
no news other than for a very large
jumping traffic through the upper lines
for four consecutive days that tell it
dropped off two levels way below pretty
much
the only other proposal thanks Lytle for
the really deep and careful inspection
of that proposal and working with them
to be able to figure out what the right
initial work there is to lay in a
protocol handler in chromium the
proposal looks pretty much good right
now so I think over the next few weeks
we'll be able to hopefully sign papers
and get work kicked off the delay is
really Jessica oh yeah and this is super
quick we can talk about this like next
time we meet there is I I have been
taking there are now 13 repos in this
like grand unified Zen hub board of
things that have front ends to them
we'll just put it that way which I am
using as a ground for weeding out the
issues that have some sort of UX
implication to them and then eventually
prioritizing them and lining them up
hopefully for additional development so
oh thanks I know so there's not like a
whole lot there of value at the moment
I've just been I have down that that new
issues there's 31 are the ones that I
still need to at least label and groom
but these are using our standard label
sets there's 17 things that are icebox
just because they're too big or they're
like - next generation there's these 62
issues for further prioritization than I
need to take another look at and see if
we can figure out how to get those in
some sort of interesting priority order
the 11 issues in progress do include
some things that have probably been
abandoned including some contributing
community contributions just words are
hard
so that's but then some of it is stuff
that all y'all did and then I kind of
forgot about so I might be checking in
with you on that this represents a whole
a lot of consolidating very similar
issues or closing things that aren't
valid anymore or things that are just
like five years stale so it's been
taking like a rather painfully long time
but we're starting to wrap our heads
around that which is great what I'm
hoping this is going to be doing for us
is giving us some sort of unified
approach to you know it's like here's
something that's gonna manifest itself
in two different products um usually two
different products our companion and
some other thing so um like I said
there's not like a whole lot of cool
stuff to look at at this point right now
but watch this space for things that
involve UX changes I plan on using this
is sort of the master holding pen so um
I hope we shall be getting to know this
board better in the future
if you've probably also been getting
like github notifications about me like
digging around in your issues so you
probably already knew this was happening
if anything you know if anything that
I'm doing looks or feels weird or wrong
or fishy to you just hit me up I've been
pretty cavalier about this just because
there's a lot of really old sail stuff
in there and so I haven't taken the do
now get forgiveness later perspective on
things so please don't be offended if I
did something insensitive and in your
pet issue that you haven't thought about
in two and a half years so so yeah I'll
watch this face it's sort of a no new
situation but just want to let you know
what I have been working on this is
super useful work
I already within even within the
companion report
I really appreciate consolidation
because you've seen like we had the
similar thing approach from multiple
angles and we had like three issues
which went in two different directions
so I really appreciate you even like
pick the one which looked more most sane
or least out-of-date so it's there's
like a tremendous amount of work yeah
I'm looking I'm looking forward to going
through the the like the second tier
prioritization exercise and like that
said I mean
I can be making decisions from a UX
point of view as to what I feel is going
to generate the most value to the user
I'll probably start with an initial bash
from that perspective but probably we
should in the next couple of weeks maybe
block out just like some working session
time to kind of go through and talk
about some issues together we could do
it acing totally we could do it acing it
might be more efficient to do it all in
one room at the same time so let that
ride around in your head we can go from
there totally I'm up I'm up for multiple
sessions it's super useful especially
that we may get like full-time
maintainer for desktop web UI and like
organizing existing light scape a little
bit better will be super useful you can
look for onboarding process and then for
that person to see how interlinked our
and I mean I know that I know that we
get a little bit tetchy about
approaching things as products but if we
do have anything as close to you know a
product suite like this is it and this
gives us a good opportunity to test
around stuff
well test ground is a term of art here
but to try out methodologies that we
might be able to scale to other areas of
the org so yeah let's let's have fun
playing with this while we have the
space to do so
this isn't this is usually helpful just
from the point view of onboarding new
people coming into work yeah this is
something else um you know I don't want
to go down this road quite yet because
we need to talk about you know like the
financial mechanics behind all of this
but once we do another round of
prioritization on the ux facing stuff
there are a lot of issues in there that
i think if you were just like a really
good node developer or or just just a
decent javascript person anyway and knew
a little bit or cared a little bit about
the d web there's a lot of stuff here
that would just be like fun projects we
are living in a space for a lot of
people they're trapped at home for the
foreseeable future and in need of small
amounts of extra cash so I'm hoping
deserve some bounties on this if anyone
from the outside world is watching this
call don't get too excited just yet but
uh is as if I have any say in this I
would like this to happen soon we just
need to get some of this sort of figured
out in the back end and and okayed for
thrown some cash out at first
that's about brave but what about brave
even just one shot across the bow with
this with this group as well Landon I've
been talking about leaning a little bit
more into different types of rave
integrations the gallery work is gonna
kind of set the stage for longer turn
periods of integration there and and
brave is really interested in shipping
work early so from a point of view of
our core chromium work and resulting in
a shipping vehicle actually pop of
chromium rain it's probably gonna be
early it's not first do that but we're
also really interested in what we've
learned from the embedded node
experiments so far how can we push on
those experiments a little bit
differently with the announcement that
the Chrome OS API is that we use for
socket superpowers there are gonna be
deprecated it's really forced our hand
seriously look at what other types of
embeddings would be in what type of
bundling so we're looking more at
embedding go IP fast with brave they're
there you know have a history of being
really i've been about those types of
bundling swift or and so just want to
get you know it's socialize the idea and
for the people that are following along
these meetings and for this group there
might be some more activity there it's
interesting to you because a lot of the
work that we've done so far with
browsers has been around javascript and
this is the first time we would be
looking at okay what would I would a
bundling look like me because but also
using that as a as an experiment and a
learning platform to be able to figure
out what other types of learning like
either webassembly or wrestling fest
later on down the road they're gonna
look like what would a native from
bundling looks like look like things
like there's a lot of open questions and
there are a bunch of parties that are
kind of get curious about about this so
hopefully more news soon but just
letting folks know that we're talking
more seriously about what a probably
second half of 2020 initiative would
look like to do that
yeah totally and just to highlight go
ipfs 0.5 really cool release it will
ship some stuff relevant to bundling go
ipfs let's say if we want to bundle it
with brave the HTTP proxy mode which was
part of this PR would be super useful
because that what they do with tor tor
is exposing the socks5 proxy so this
would be like not one-to-one but very
similar approach and a lot of code and
architecture already present and created
for tor could be reused so stay tuned I
guess we are at the end of the agenda if
there are any topics that would be a
good time to add them in the meantime
I will go over highlights which i've had
ads so that there are releases not
always we have releases but this week so
I already mention it but ipfs companion
has a better and stable channel and beta
is kind of stable but it's experiment
it's it's not something we push to
everyone so before we push something to
stable we push it to better so we had
better releases to iterate on top of
subdomains and other fixes and we had a
stable release here something I did not
mention before is that we temporarily
disabled window.i DFS injection until
jsapi
in a gives companion is updated to the
latest J's API the problem was that
companion was injecting the old API and
there were no programmatic way for
people to figure out what API would they
will get they would have to get the API
check if it's fine
and if not throw it away and try it
again which was like very ridiculous and
people did not use window I profess that
way
so the good thing is like window ipfs is
not something people expect to be
present at all times
it's like opportunistic thing that web
apps check if there's window ipfs let's
use that because that's probably backed
by go at BFS it's faster however if it's
not present a lot of apps will either
spawn HDD client and use API on the back
end or will bound embedded JC DFS that's
just a quick shoutout that for now
window ipfs is suspended probably will
re-enable in the next release I also
like updated docks in case someone
stumbles upon it and we have a tracking
issue for this migration to the new API
I will repurpose this issue field by
Allen the same API in J's ipfs and J's a
ipfs HTTP client so it's a good place to
track that and as a part of preparation
for goofus 0.5 i released a new version
of Windows or Windows my gosh worse my
mind I did not release Windows I did
release ipfs web UI so it's a small
patch release mainly it has the fix for
the post on a HTTP API however there are
new translations for Italian Japanese
Russian and maybe something some more I
often like missed something
and also synchronized all existing ones
once again I wanted to thank to everyone
who's translating same for companion
there's always link somewhere which I
missed this time no this is a better
release what I'm what I'm saying he is
here in under features there's a link
how can I add improve translations which
will point you at our translation
project with some steps you need to
apply the ask for being let into a
translation team at transfix
but that's just formality we usually
accept folks and once a quarter or half
a year we do a purge of inactive folks
because we are open source project and
there's a limited number of translators
that we have in our plan it's usually
not a problem I thought I'd mentioned it
so back to the web UI it has a coal CID
v1 and that's the version that will be
used by go IDF s that's it that's all
about releases from this week hopefully
we'll get going if s 0.5 soon and I
think left folks and I think you want to
discuss yeah I had one more meeting at a
point there was a turnable PL survey
shiva tea and things like this and
related to like how the cadence to the
abbeys and the length of these meetings
I just want to get a feel for people
whether these meeting what's working for
them I do feel like you're learning new
things the right things does it have the
round the room status feel or does it
feel once I
I appreciate this meeting because it
gives me a chance to overhear for the
people who are creating the things
information about stuff that I may not
otherwise receive that other than you
know like release notices so I do find
this useful
I agree and I think bi-weekly will be
better because then I'll usually have
stuff in two weeks one week is a bit
tight
yeah I also agree that it's quite useful
to get insights of a lot of studies
discussing these meetings and two weeks
I think it will be the perfect spot yeah
I agree
but the dirac we might may work for just
fine we'll see thanks ollie there's some
meetings of how you structured there's
all these headings and things that you
fill in and other ones like this it's
just a big canvas every every time and
it is so many things I feel the
structured agenda really works well and
some meetings I feel like open agenda
works well like there's not that one
rule that works for all all meeting
agenda Styles I really appreciate that
open canvas one style that this meeting
I always feel like it's it keeps things
interesting I don't know that we hit the
right things every time but we probably
do eventually and I feel like the
important things are raised and then
other meetings where there's two
structures and there people feel like
that to fill in the headers sometimes in
a structured agenda so stuff that maybe
isn't perfect parents there but I do
appreciate that openness and just like
looking back there's a playlist of all
the historical going in browser skulls
and you could see how this call kinda
involved was right now how it looks like
right now it's bit different that it was
before and it changed multiple times at
one point it was a sort of like a demo
time for when we had a GUI working group
it was a place for GUI working group
members to showcase stuff and it really
worked on YouTube because it was like
probably the only visual thing around
ideas project which you could show to
people and it was something else than
the code but it evolves over all the
time and I'm pretty happy that we'll
experiment with the weekly
also like the move interesting
experience for me was meeting folks at
ipfs come and like people actually watch
this but not a lot of people but people
who are very passionate and they are
building they said that it was actually
like very like they watched the ipfs
weekly one when we have external
speakers and like one topic and this
that this one was like a second one
which they always try to watch or at
least read emitting notes to be in the
loop what's happening across the project
mostly because the GUI applications like
companion and all the stuff is built on
top of libraries and if people are
people are building on top of libraries
usually on this the problem surface on
this call first
so it's acted as a like an early warning
system if there's like a breaking change
or there's like a new interesting API
opportunity so I hope it will serve the
purpose
right folks I think that's it see you in
two weeks